[GENAU] Attention, please.
c0000001
The first-class mage exam
will begin momentarily.
c0000002
You will not be tested
on your own, but as a party.
c0000003
The 57 exam-takers
c0000004
will be split up
into groups of three.
c0000005
[fire crackling]
c0000006
There, see.
I knew you could do it.
c0000007
[chuckles] Yeah, whatever.
c0000008
[KANNE] Lawine's rough
around the edges,
c0000009
but she somehow
always pulls me along.
c0000010
[fire crackling]
c0000011
[HIMMEL] Tomorrow,
we're finally going to fight
c0000012
our first dragon.
c0000013
You're shaking, Eisen.
c0000014
Don't tell me you're scared.
c0000015
-[EISEN] I am.
-I see.
c0000016
In that case...
c0000017
Huh. You are?
c0000018
[EISEN] Deeply.
c0000019
I know how you feel.
c0000020
I'm scared, too.
c0000021
-[EISEN] Hm.
-How motivational.
c0000022
[Heiter chuckles]
c0000023
My plan was to mimic
other adventurers
c0000024
and inspire you with a speech.
c0000025
I'm sorry.
c0000026
It doesn't seem to have worked.
c0000027
[EISEN] Don't say that.
c0000028
I feel far less nervous.
c0000029
Be yourself. It's you
we've followed, Himmel.
c0000030
Every party needs
something different.
c0000031
We would choose
your voice over a script.
c0000032
[chuckles]
c0000033
Guess you're right.
c0000034
♪
c0000035
[FRIEREN] Heiter was wise.
c0000036
Every party really
does need something different.
c0000037
[chirping]
c0000038
We finally caught a Stille.
c0000039
Thank goodness.
c0000040
Now we can take a breath.
c0000041
[LAND] Why are you so relaxed?
c0000042
Even birdy knows we're only
just getting started, right?
c0000043
We're a target now.
c0000044
Our new goal is to keep
the other parties
c0000045
from taking our Stille.
c0000046
At last.
Time to spill blood.
c0000047
[chuckles]
c0000048
Right, then.
c0000049
Let's review everything
we've learned
c0000050
from observing the Stille.
c0000051
Well, we confirmed
what you already told us,
c0000052
that they fly faster
than the speed of sound.
c0000053
♪
c0000054
[sonic boom]
c0000055
[KANNE] There's no way we could
ever dream of chasing one down.
c0000056
Plus, the little things
are tough as dragons,
c0000057
so common attack spells
have no effect on them all.
c0000058
Most restraints are useless.
c0000059
We've seen that they're
very sensitive to mana.
c0000060
Even when we've suppressed
our power to approach them,
c0000061
they feel us and fly away.
c0000062
♪
c0000063
[sonic boom]
c0000064
A problem far bigger
than any of those
c0000065
is that because the Stille have
practically no mana themselves,
c0000066
we don't have anything
to try and detect.
c0000067
All that to say,
there's no quick way of knowing
c0000068
where they are
or how many there might be.
c0000069
Yesterday morning, we saw three.
c0000070
If there aren't
any more than that,
c0000071
we could be in trouble.
c0000072
They're probably
just being cautious
c0000073
because so many people
are after them.
c0000074
I just hope they're not
cautious enough
c0000075
to hide forever.
c0000076
Even if we defy the odds
and find one somehow,
c0000077
we don't have any idea
how to catch it.
c0000078
You can leave that duty to me.
c0000079
After you went
to sleep last night,
c0000080
I stayed up and experimented
with a spell
c0000081
that might be useful
c0000082
for getting our hands
on a Stille.
c0000083
Gotcha.
So, that's where you went.
c0000084
What kind of spell is it?
c0000085
[FRIEREN]
You already know, Kanne.
c0000086
Hm?
c0000087
It was made
for capturing birds.
c0000088
A tribe of hunters
developed it long ago.
c0000089
The perfect example
of a folk spell.
c0000090
In their era, magic and mages
c0000091
were far more common
than they are today.
c0000092
[KANNE] Wait, are we talking
about the spell
c0000093
you used to save me?
c0000094
If it's for capturing birds,
why did it work on a monster?
c0000095
Folk magic is rather loose.
c0000096
As long as your target
resembles a bird,
c0000097
the spell should cooperate.
c0000098
If it could restrain
that mighty beast,
c0000099
I think it should work
fine on the Stille.
c0000100
Why didn't you tell us
about this before now?
c0000101
If we had known,
we could've caught the one
c0000102
that we almost had yesterday.
c0000103
If only it were
as simple as that.
c0000104
-Hm?
c0000105
The spell's range
is roughly 50 centimeters.
c0000106
So we would've needed to be
close enough to touch it.
c0000107
Well, at least
we have a clear goal now.
c0000108
How close have
we gotten to one so far?
c0000109
About three meters
was the closest.
c0000110
The more concerning part
is that
c0000111
we haven't been able
to get within 20
c0000112
before they picked
up on our mana.
c0000113
We're just one piece away
from solving the puzzle.
c0000114
[LAWINE] That's a disturbingly
large piece.
c0000115
[FRIEREN] Catching a Stille
with your magic
c0000116
might not be possible,
c0000117
but could either of you
devise a way to stop one?
c0000118
There are a million ways
c0000119
ice magic could slow down
a normal foe,
c0000120
but ours is sensitive to mana
and resistant to freezing.
c0000121
I fear it would escape
c0000122
before we could attempt
to fix it in place.
c0000123
If we had access
to loads and loads of water,
c0000124
I'm confident we could stop
that bird dead in its tracks.
c0000125
Thing is, my magic
can only control water
c0000126
that's already there.
c0000127
Nifty as it would be, I can't
create water out of nothing.
c0000128
My best bet would be
to find a lake or stream.
c0000129
Of course, mana struggles
to penetrate
c0000130
large bodies of water,
c0000131
but I could infuse it
with my mana
c0000132
well before we're
planning our big move.
c0000133
Then, no matter
how much water there is,
c0000134
even if it's scattered
like rain,
c0000135
I can manipulate it.
c0000136
Although, I guess
instilling the water with mana
c0000137
would definitely make
c0000138
the mana-sensitive
Stille stay away.
c0000139
Stay away, huh?
c0000140
You're right.
They would stay away.
c0000141
-Huh?
c0000142
I have a plan
that just might work.
c0000143
♪
c0000144
It's not a bad idea,
c0000145
but we would certainly
be taking a risk.
c0000146
If we do this,
we'll be picking a fight
c0000147
with all the other teams.
c0000148
Yeah, but I don't think
we could catch one otherwise.
c0000149
Hm.
c0000150
Lawine. Are you scared?
c0000151
You're gonna rip 'em
outta my head!
c0000152
Would it kill you
to show some mercy?
c0000153
-[groaning]
-Hm.
c0000154
[LAWINE] If you're sure,
c0000155
let's do it already.
c0000156
[wind whooshing]
c0000157
We're so close.
c0000158
We should lay low and stay
hidden until the test is over.
c0000159
Boo, that's no fun at all.
c0000160
Mages shouldn't
tuck themselves away
c0000161
'cause they're
too scared to fight.
c0000162
[LAND]
They also shouldn't fight
c0000163
because they're
too reckless to wait.
c0000164
[sighs] Huh.
c0000165
Before we do anything,
we need water.
c0000166
I believe there was a lake
c0000167
in the middle
of the testing area.
c0000168
Regardless of what
happens next,
c0000169
I'm glad we caught
a Stille so quickly.
c0000170
If we can remain
in the shadows until sunset,
c0000171
we'll pass the first test.
c0000172
[chuckles]
c0000173
What now?
c0000174
[UBEL] I'm afraid
it won't be that easy.
c0000175
I thought this gravel
was a road at first,
c0000176
but it's actually
a dried-up riverbed.
c0000177
Unfortunately,
this isn't the first one
c0000178
we've come across.
c0000179
Say, Land?
c0000180
At the very beginning,
they mentioned something
c0000181
about a barrier, didn't they?
c0000182
Yes. They're standard
for these sorts of tests.
c0000183
Physical barriers so strong
c0000184
not a speck of dust
could bleed through.
c0000185
If that's the case,
do they block water, too?
c0000186
Well.
c0000187
Judging by the dryness,
c0000188
I'd guess this barrier
was erected over a week ago.
c0000189
[FERN] I see.
c0000190
Then most of the water
will have collected in the lake
c0000191
in the middle of the basin.
c0000192
We test-takers need
water to stay active.
c0000193
It's like they're
exploiting the fact
c0000194
we're living creatures.
c0000195
Fair observation.
c0000196
But needing water
doesn't necessarily mean
c0000197
gathering around the lake.
c0000198
[FERN] You're right.
c0000199
Because we can carry
water with us.
c0000200
But the Stille, which are also
living creatures, cannot.
c0000201
That's a good point.
c0000202
Surely others
have realized this.
c0000203
It's safe to assume that
they're lying in ambush
c0000204
around the bank as we speak.
c0000205
-Huh.
c0000206
[LAND] I've made our decision.
c0000207
We'll give up on finding water.
c0000208
I haven't had anything
to drink in ages.
c0000209
Do you want your poor teammate
to shrivel up and die?
c0000210
[LAND] We can find
a small pond.
c0000211
Maybe a puddle.
c0000212
[UBEL] Would that
even be sanitary?
c0000213
[FERN] If we boil it, perhaps.
c0000214
[gasps]
c0000215
♪
c0000216
[gasps]
c0000217
♪
c0000218
Huh.
c0000219
[chuckles]
c0000220
c0000221
♪
c0000222
Aren't you a thorn in my side.
c0000223
I was shooting to kill, lady.
c0000224
I'm surprised you could
react so quickly.
c0000225
Eh, whatever.
c0000226
Just leave the cage
with the Stille inside.
c0000227
And what if I tell you no?
c0000228
Then I guess we don't have
any need for words.
c0000229
[rumbling]
c0000230
[electricity crackling]
c0000231
[all gasp]
c0000232
[FERN] That came from the lake.
c0000233
Hm?
c0000234
♪
c0000235
[explosion]
c0000236
[creaking]
c0000237
[shattering]
c0000238
That girl just froze
the entire lake!
c0000239
What sort of a plan
could require that?
c0000240
A seriously unfunny one!
c0000241
[WIRBEL] This mana
is from a member
c0000242
of the second party.
c0000243
What could they be thinking?
c0000244
These jokers looking
to make 50 new enemies?
c0000245
[sigh]
c0000246
♪
c0000247
[grunting]
c0000248
C'mon, give it all you've got!
c0000249
If you can't melt it,
we're done for!
c0000250
[RICHTER] Denken.
What should we do?
c0000251
Not what they're doing,
I can tell you that much.
c0000252
Trying to melt it now
is useless.
c0000253
After such a showy
display of magic,
c0000254
the Stille won't come anywhere
near this lake again.
c0000255
At this point, we have
no choice but to steal.
c0000256
And if the second party
was bold enough
c0000257
to pull this stunt,
there is no doubt
c0000258
they will soon have
one for the taking.
c0000259
♪
c0000260
[leaves rustling]
c0000261
♪
c0000262
[FERN] Mistress Frieren,
c0000263
what could you
possibly be doing?
c0000264
[shatters]
c0000265
♪
c0000266
I say we scatter for now.
c0000267
[fire roaring]
c0000268
[EDEL] Hurry up!
We're running out of time!
c0000269
How foolish they are.
c0000270
If the spell the second party
used to freeze the lake
c0000271
didn't scare off
the Stille for good,
c0000272
these paltry efforts to melt it
c0000273
will certainly
get the job done.
c0000274
-Hm.
-[DENKEN] It's safe to say
c0000275
the Stille won't return.
c0000276
-Ready to go?
-Yeah.
c0000277
That way!
c0000278
Those sharp enough
to put that together
c0000279
are busy scanning the terrain
for other watering holes.
c0000280
But their mana detection
is inadequate.
c0000281
They won't be able to handle
the airborne threats.
c0000282
Amateurs.
c0000283
[MALE MAGE 19B] Apparently,
the second party went crazy
c0000284
and froze the lake!
c0000285
Are they trying
to sabotage the exam?
c0000286
Sabotage it?
No. Not at all.
c0000287
This is the second party's
well-laid plan.
c0000288
And until we can figure out
what that plan is,
c0000289
we won't get anywhere.
c0000290
♪
c0000291
[DENKEN]
This is the work of monsters.
c0000292
♪
c0000293
[DENKEN] No helping them now.
c0000294
Move along.
c0000295
Come on, sir.
c0000296
We should at least
take their bodies down.
c0000297
You can see the beasts,
can't you?
c0000298
They're circling
above us right now.
c0000299
Not just one or two
of them, either.
c0000300
They've laid their magic
on those corpses.
c0000301
If we tried to move them,
they would know we're here.
c0000302
That's the way of the Geisel.
c0000303
They use the remains
of one victim
c0000304
to lure in the next.
c0000305
This party was so naive
as to fall for their trap,
c0000306
and look where it got them.
c0000307
This isn't right.
c0000308
Why hold the test in a place
with such awful monsters?
c0000309
It's like the proctors
don't care
c0000310
if the participants get killed.
c0000311
This is obviously
your first time
c0000312
taking the exam, Laufen.
c0000313
-Their reason is rather simple.
-Hm?
c0000314
Anyone who is killed
on a stage like this
c0000315
is unqualified
to be first-class.
c0000316
The Continental
Magic Association
c0000317
is keen to uphold
the standards of that title.
c0000318
For many of them, the idea
of what a mage should be
c0000319
was cemented long ago
by the noble few
c0000320
who took down
the Demon King's army.
c0000321
I have no patience for that
outdated school of thought.
c0000322
That surprises me, Denken.
c0000323
I thought of all people,
c0000324
you would be the one
to take their side.
c0000325
The quality of a mage
is irrelevant.
c0000326
-[LAUFEN] Hm?
-It's more important
c0000327
for first-class mages
to be symbols of power
c0000328
than powerful themselves.
c0000329
Strength means nothing
if a mage can't act
c0000330
as that symbol.
c0000331
In the real world,
casting spells weighs
c0000332
much less than winning hearts.
c0000333
I've seen countless mages
far more skilled than myself
c0000334
fall from grace
and be persecuted
c0000335
by the same people who once
celebrated them.
c0000336
Great power's a thing
to be feared.
c0000337
And rule by fear
can only last so long.
c0000338
Neither magic nor strength
should be put on a pedestal.
c0000339
I see now.
c0000340
So, someone as weak
as you is perfect for the job.
c0000341
[DENKEN] You would be wise
to watch your tongue, whelp.
c0000342
I could beat you to a pulp
with my hands restrained
c0000343
and eyes closed.
c0000344
Hm.
c0000345
♪
c0000346
c0000347
[LAUFEN] Still no luck.
c0000348
The second party is good.
c0000349
[RICHTER] Good at concealing
their mana, at the very least.
c0000350
[grunts]
c0000351
There's been something
eerily similar
c0000352
about every watering hole
we've come across.
c0000353
Huh.
c0000354
Though it's faint, I can sense
c0000355
there was mana
poured into this pond.
c0000356
I can't pick up on anything.
c0000357
Strange. Can you?
c0000358
Not even a little.
c0000359
Just what could they be up to?
c0000360
There's such a small amount
of mana here
c0000361
that I highly doubt
even the caster
c0000362
could successfully detect it.
c0000363
But the Stille could
sense it without difficulty.
c0000364
They won't be coming
near this water again.
c0000365
The only reason
you would want that is...
c0000366
Of course!
There must be an untouched
c0000367
watering hole somewhere.
c0000368
And if we can find that,
c0000369
we will find
the second party, as well.
c0000370
But how can we?
c0000371
I'm going to rest a bit.
c0000372
[RICHTER] Denken.
c0000373
The testing area is enormous.
c0000374
It would be impossible
to find a mage
c0000375
who truly doesn't
want to be found.
c0000376
Just wait.
c0000377
They'll have to show us
where they are soon enough.
c0000378
[KANNE]
I think I finally did it!
c0000379
I poured mana into every pond
I could find!
c0000380
I guess there could be
other ones
c0000381
we don't know about, though.
c0000382
Limiting the watering holes
the Stille can use
c0000383
should be enough
for our plan to work.
c0000384
So all that's left to do now
c0000385
is wait for one to come
and get a drink.
c0000386
♪
c0000387
I had no idea that
mana was something
c0000388
a mage could
completely turn off.
c0000389
No, not completely.
c0000390
Even the slightest movement
causes some mana to eke out.
c0000391
Sense it?
c0000392
Not at all, actually.
c0000393
Kanne and I will stand watch.
c0000394
Hm.
c0000395
Provided she can handle that.
c0000396
Oh, shut up.
c0000397
If it rained, I could take down
just about anybody.
c0000398
[LAWINE] If it rained,
the barrier would deflect it.
c0000399
♪
c0000400
[galloping]
c0000401
♪
c0000402
[bird screeching]
c0000403
[fluttering]
c0000404
[thuds]
c0000405
[water splashes]
c0000406
♪
c0000407
c0000408
[Kanne gasps]
c0000409
Wow, Frieren! Did you catch it?
c0000410
This was well worth picking
a fight with the other parties.
c0000411
Now we're gonna
pass the first test
c0000412
with flying colors!
c0000413
Or not.
c0000414
[DENKEN] Well, it's about time.
c0000415
One of their members
had to use magic.
c0000416
No mage, no matter
how skilled they might be,
c0000417
can fully conceal their mana
as they wield it.
c0000418
We need to leave.
c0000419
Someone's detected us.
c0000420
♪
c0000421
Well, you're certainly quick.
c0000422
So much for getting away
from here.
c0000423
Now, Jubelade.
c0000424
♪
c0000425
Doragate.
c0000426
[thudding]
c0000427
[FERN] It's like a cannon.
c0000428
[EHRE] She keeps backing off.
c0000429
♪
c0000430
Huh.
c0000431
[EHRE] Her technique is refined
and near seamless,
c0000432
but it's old-fashioned.
c0000433
It feels like I'm fighting
my grandfather.
c0000434
Ordinary offensive
and defensive magic?
c0000435
Nothing more
than the most basic of spells.
c0000436
Playing things close
to the chest, are we?
c0000437
I was taught
from a very young age
c0000438
to only use basic spells
during combat.
c0000439
This philosophy's coming
from your master, then?
c0000440
[FERN] Yes. She said
the basics are enough
c0000441
to defeat mages of this era.
c0000442
Oh, yeah?
c0000443
[grunts]
c0000444
[thudding]
c0000445
♪
c0000446
[EHRE] Predictable.
c0000447
It's so simple it feels wrong,
c0000448
like I'm fighting a mage
c0000449
who just learned
her first spell.
c0000450
You're going to struggle.
c0000451
If you try to take on Wirbel
with this technique,
c0000452
you would be dead
after the first blow.
c0000453
[FERN] That doesn't
make any sense.
c0000454
I thought you were
the strongest one here.
c0000455
Or was I wrong?
c0000456
♪
c0000457
-[rumbling]
-[wind whooshing]
c0000458
[chuckles]
c0000459
Wirbel and his men
took on the remnants
c0000460
of the Demon King's army.
c0000461
He's captain
of the Northern Magic Corps.
c0000462
He has far more
experience in battle.
c0000463
His magic is utterly devoid
of character,
c0000464
designed to win at all costs.
c0000465
I pity the girl
who's up against him now.
c0000466
She'll surely be killed.
c0000467
Is that so?
c0000468
[UBEL]
What hells have you seen?
c0000469
[DENKEN] I'll crush her.
c0000470
[KANNE] This guy is no joke.
c0000471
[LAWINE] Try me. I dare you.
[LAND] How impressive.
c0000472
[RICHTER] You old fool.
c0000473
[WIRBEL] I've never run
from killing
c0000474
when it was necessary.